Rental Agreement
TENANCY AGREEMENT
DATE : (date)(month) 20--
PARTIES : 1. The Landlord……………….
P. O. Box …….
>>>>>>>>>>.
(as beneficial owner of the Property)
The Tenant _______________
P. O. Box ____________
………………………
PROPERTY The Property rented is Bungalow known as the
“The Otter House” together with the furniture and fittings therein
situated in the ……. of that piece or parcel of land known as Land
Reference Number ……….. together with the fixtures and fittings.
TERM 1 year From: _____________ 20--
To : _____________ 20--
RENT (FIRST YEAR) Rent payable is (amount in words)
Shillings (KShs. ……) per month clear of any deductions
whatsoever payable quarterly in advance on the first day of each
quarter to the Landlord.
DEPOSIT / SECURITY One the date of commencement of this
tenancy to deposit with the Landlord and maintain through out the
term an amount equivalent of three (3) months rent (the deposit)
being the initial amount of Kenya Shillings (amount in words)(KShs ...... )as security for the performance
by the Tenant of the Tenant’s Obligations under this Tenancy.
The Landlord may apply the Deposit towards the Tenant’s
obligations and may thereafter allocate any subsequent payment
by the Tenant to restore the Deposit in full.
The Deposit shall be refundable without any interest to the Tenant
after the expiry of this Tenancy and the Delivery up of the premises
in proper condition and in accordance with the provisions of this
Tenancy.

FIRST PAYMENT OF
RENT: Kenyan Shillings (amount) being rent for
the first quarter from (date)(month) 20-- upto 31st (date)(month)20-- to the
Landlord upon execution hereof (receipt of which sum is hereby
acknowledged) and the next payment is due by equal quarterly

payments in advance at the beginning of the remaining quarters.
SECURITY: Deposit of KShs. ________ / US$ ________ shall
be paid to the Landlord upon execution hereof and refundable
without interest on expiry of lease in accordance with the terms
herein contained.
A. It is hereby agreed that the Landlord lets and the Tenant takes the Property for the term and
at the rent as stated above.
B. This Agreement incorporates the Letting Provisions annexed hereto.
LETTING PROVISIONS
Where the context admits,
the “Landlord” includes the persons for the time being entitled in reservation expectant on the tenancy.
the “Tenant” includes the persons deriving title under the Tenant.
References to the Property includes references to any part or parts of the Property.
2. The Tenant will:
2.1 Pay the rent at the times and in the manner specified.
2.2 Pay for all electricity, water and conservancy which shall be consumed on or supplied to the Property during
the tenancy and pay all charges made for the use of the telephone (if any) on the Property during the tenancy and,
on termination of the tenancy, will give copies of final paid up bills for all services to the Landlord or the Landlord’s
Agents provided always the Landlord shall ensure all services are duly connected at the commencement of the Term
and shall ensure all utility accounts are duly cleared at the commencement date.
2.3 Use the Property in a tenant-like manner for a private residential dwelling only and not carry on or permit to
be carried on the Property any trade or business of any kind whatsoever.
2.4 Not damage or injure the Property or make any alteration in or addition to it (including boundary walls and
fences) without the prior written consent of the Landlord such consent not to be unreasonably withheld, provided the
property is returned in its original condition at the end of the tenancy.
2.5 Keep the interior of the buildings on the Property including all fittings and fixtures in reasonable repair and
condition, fair wear and tear excepted, and will yield up the same in like repair and condition at the expiration of the
said term.

2.6 Cultivate the garden of the Property and keep the same in reasonable order and condition and dispose of
the garbage outside of the Property.
2.7 Permit the Landlord or the Landlord’s Agents at any arranged time to enter the Property to view the state and
condition thereof upon reasonable advanced notice.
2.8 Execute all repairs for which the Tenant is liable in accordance with any notice reasonably given by the
Landlord after inspection of the Property as aforesaid.
2.9 Permit the Landlord or the Landlord’s Agents during the last Two (2) months of the tenancy to exhibit, in any
other reasonably suitable place, a notice advertising the Property as being let and, during this period, will allow all
persons holding an order to view the Property upon reasonable advanced notice.
2.10 On termination of the tenancy, paint all those parts of the interior of the buildings on the Property as are
usually painted with two coats of paint and will grain, varnish and colour all such parts as are usually so dealt with in
a proper and workmanlike manner to the reasonable satisfaction of the Landlord or the Landlord’s Agents and in the
same colour scheme as at the time of taking occupation.
2.11 Make periodic inspections of the Property and report to the Landlord any apparent defects in the structure of
the buildings on the Property and any signs of white ants, bees, termites or any other destructive insects or any signs
of wet or dry rot.
2.12 Not assign, underlet, charge or part with possession of the Property (or any part thereof) without the prior
written consent of the Landlord such consent not to be unreasonably withheld.
2.13 Not do or suffer to be done on the Property anything which may be or become a substantial nuisance or
annoyance to the Landlord or the tenants or occupiers of any adjoining premises or which may vitiate any insurance
of the Property against fire or otherwise or increase the ordinary premium for such insurance.
2.14 Be responsible for all damages incurred as a result of negligence or wilful act of the Tenant, its servants,
licences or trustees and will replace with articles of a similar quality all items which shall be lost, broken or damaged
during the tenancy.
2.15 Yield up the Property at the end of the tenancy in reasonable and tenantable repair in accordance with the
foregoing agreements.
2.16 The tenant shall pay for all costs associated with drawing up of this agreement including, without limitation
the Advocate’s costs, stamp duty and registration fees (if any).
The Landlord agrees with the Tenant as follows:
The Tenant paying the rent hereby reserved and performing and observing all agreements and conditions herein
contained or implied and on its part to be performed and observed shall and may peacefully and quietly hold the
Property during the tenancy hereby created without any interruptions from or by the landlord of any person on his
behalf.

To keep the roof, main walls and main timbers lock, windows and the outside of the buildings on the Property and the
water and sanitary apparatus and electric wiring and immersion heaters, in good and tenantable repair and condition
and will carry out any repairs to the inside of the said buildings not caused by the default of the Tenant under this
Agreement.
To pay the rates, government land rent and all other taxes and insurances and charges now or hereafter payable in
respect of the property and if required provide to the Tenant copies of the receipted accounts.
General Terms:
If the rent shall be in arrears for more than Fourteen (14) days after the same have become due and payable, or if
the Tenant shall fail to perform and observe any of the agreements herein contained or implied and has not complied
with any notices in respect of such breach or non payment, it shall be lawful for the Landlord at any time thereafter to
enter into the Property and to again repossess the same without prejudice to any right of action or remedy of the
Landlord in respect of any antecedent breach of any of the covenants herein contained or implied.
In the event the Rent shall be in arrears or if any such payment dishonoured then interest shall be charged on any
outstanding amount at the rate of 2% above the base rate of (payment method) as published from time to
time until payment in full of the amount including bank charges and shall accrue on a daily basis.
Termination:
The Tenant and the Landlord shall be entitled to terminate this Agreement on giving the other party three (3) calendar
months’ written notice of its intention to do so and at the expiration of such period of notice this agreement shall cease
and determine but without prejudice to any right of action accrued to either party during the currency of the agreement.
If the Tenant/ Landlord after notice in writing given to it/ him by the other party requiring it/ him to carry out any work
or repair or redecoration for which it/ he is lawfully liable shall fail to commence and diligently proceed with such works
within (30) days it shall be lawful for the party giving such notice to carry out and execute such works and the cost
thereof shall be a debt due from the other party and be forthwith recoverable by action or deductible from the Rent.
If the Tenant has substantially complied with the terms of this Agreement the Landlord agrees to give the Tenant an
option to extend the tenancy for a further two (2) years subject to the rent being revised. The notice must be given
by the tenant in writing not later than three (3) months prior to the end of the Term if the Tenant wishes to take up the
option. In the event the parties are unable to agree the amount of the new Rent payable then the Rent shall be
determined by an independent valuer to be nominated by the parties. If the parties cannot agree on a valuer each
party will appoint one valuer and the two valuers so appointed shall appoint an umpire who shall also be a qualified
valuer and such umpire shall determine the then current open market rental of the premises. The valuer’s costs shall
be borne equally by the parties.
Arbitration:
Save as may be hereinbefore otherwise specifically provided all questions hereafter in dispute between the
parties hereto and all claims for compensation or otherwise not mutually settled and agreed between the
parties shall be referred to arbitration by a single arbitrator being a practising advocate of the High Court of

Kenya of not less than fifteen (15) years and a member of the Institute of Arbitrators Kenya Branch standing
assisted by such assessors or professional advisers as the arbitrator shall deem necessary to appoint to sit
with him or her to be appointed in default of agreement by the parties by the Chairman for the time being of
the Institute of Arbitrators Kenya Branch and every award made under this Clause shall be expressed to be
made under the Arbitration Act 1995 or any Act amending or replacing such Act. The parties hereby agree
that they shall abide by any decision so made by such arbitration.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto have set their hands the day and year first hereinabove written.
SIGNED by ………………………… )
in the presence of: )
)
)
)
)
)
)
SIGNED by < Authorised Representative > )
for and on behalf of the Tenant in the )
presence of: )